Paola issues (#93)
ACDguide/Governance: Governance/publish/publish-procedure.md

```

```{grid-item-card}
:class-header: bg-light

Step 2: Metadata
^^^
Metadata includes any information on the data itself. In a published record the metadata is usually available as a record abstract and inside the files (if using a self-describing format such as netCDF) or by auxiliary metadata files.
Ideally all this combined information should allow someone to reproduce the data from scratch (see [Provenance](../concepts/provenance)).
```

```{grid-item-card}
:class-header: bg-light

Step 3: Formatting files
^^^
Files should be well formatted to enhance their accessibility and usability.
```
````

`````{tab-set}
````{tab-item} Choices    
   :class-container: px-100 
**What** 

It's not usual or a good thing to publish all the data produced in a research project. It's important to identify what data is useful or required, considered other limitations like storage availability. Here are some considerations that can help with the choice.
1. Provide the information needed to interpret, reuse and reproduce the results. This is what journal publishers usually require, most of them provides [guidelines and examples](journals) of which data should be shared.
 

> 2. If the output is big publish only a subset. If methods are well described, the software used is easily available, then publishing only the subset of data that underlines a publication is sufficient. For example, the post-processed output is sufficient for a model simulation. However, the model version and configuration used, the input data and model source code should be clearly documented.

Reviewer: comma after "big"

> 3. It's essential to consider an end user point of view. What would a user look for when considering using a dataset? What kind of information is essential for the data to be usable? Which additional information would make its use easier?

Author: Good point, I was going to also add something like that in the abstract part which I haven't tackle yet, as giving context to the data helps highlighting that too, but it's worth to make it explicit

> 3. It's essential to consider an end user point of view. What would a user look for when considering using a dataset? What kind of information is essential for the data to be usable? Which additional information would make its use easier?

Author: Re-reading this I might move the current point 3 to the "abstract" I haven't wrote yet because it's something to consider in the data description and make your suggestion point 3. And then I would also mention that in the abstract

> 3. It's essential to consider an end user point of view. What would a user look for when considering using a dataset? What kind of information is essential for the data to be usable? Which additional information would make its use easier?

Reviewer: 3. Consider adding an example of what's essential to consider from an end-user point of view. For example, ACS aims to publish bias-corrected data on a 5km grid; this decision is mainly based on user needs who want to have higher and higher resolved data. But I am not sure if that's an example for data creation rather than publish procedure.

> 3. It's essential to consider an end user point of view. What would a user look for when considering using a dataset? What kind of information is essential for the data to be usable? Which additional information would make its use easier?

Author: I've made this changes pushing now, I also change the abstract part to a more comprehensive  "dataset web page" to include keywords, related works , tile etc.

> 3. It's essential to consider an end user point of view. What would a user look for when considering using a dataset? What kind of information is essential for the data to be usable? Which additional information would make its use easier?

Author: sorry Alice I missed your comment before, yes probably that's nearly going into data product while here is more about what to choose among what's available, rather than making a decision at the start of the project on what the output should look like.

 
**Licence**

This is often left last and in most cases this is not an issue, however, it is important to know from the start of the research what are the licensing terms of the data used as input and, if the rules around licensing potentially imposed by the employer, the project itself and funding bodies. Big collaborative projects, like CMIP6, usually have their set of rules around licensing.
[Licenses](../concepts/license) are covered extensively in the concepts part of this book.
It is also worth to consider adding **term of use** and a **disclaimer** to avoid the data being misused accidentally.

**Version** 

Often researchers think they don't need a version for a dataset as they are not planning to publish a second version. However, it is common to do mistakes when publishing data, no matter how small the issue the result is often having to publish an updated version as a DOI is a persistent identifier and changes to the underlying files are not permitted. This is why it is always recommended to have a version. [Versioning](../tech/versioning) is covered in the technical tips part of this book. 

**Authors and collaborators**

> Another important choice is the authors and collaborators. As for a paper only people who contributed to the data (the data not the research project itself) should be listed as authors and where appropriate people who helped for example with the publishing process itself, formatting the data etc as collaborators. See the [authorship page](../concepts/authorship) in concepts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like journal manuscripts, datasets (and software) have an authorship list and collaborators. As for a paper, only people who contributed to the dataset (the data not the research project itself) should be listed as authors and where appropriate people who helped for example with the publishing process itself, formatting the data etc as collaborators. See the [authorship page](../concepts/authorship) in concepts.
```

````

````{tab-item} Metadata

**Abstract**

> This ...

Author: That's the part I didn't have yet time to write :-) I will add it now that I'm a bit more confident I was going in the right direction

> This ...

Author: I Worte that now, see comment above

```

**Auxiliary files**

These could be any kind of text, tabular files or other formats like markup (xml, html, json, md etc.) that add information on the data. These could also be actual data files, for example the ancillary files used to run a model simulation. 
````

````{tab-item} Formatting files

**Files organisation**
The way files are organised in folders, their names and sizes should consider both how the files will be distributed and how they will be used. For example, the protocol used to download the files might have a maximum size allowed, likewise having to list a lot of small files it's inefficient when loading an html page. Names also should be descriptive enough that a file can be recognised easily after has been downloaded as being part of a specific dataset. We covered [files organisation and naming](../tech/drs-names) in the technical pages of this book, however, it is important to check the publisher instructions in this regard, or, if none are available online, contacting them about it as early as possible in the publishing process.  

**Conventions**

> It is important to use [conventions](../concepts/conventions) and [controlled vocabularies](../concepts/controlled-vocab) whenever possible, both official ones, like CF conventions for file attributes, and others which are not a requirement but have become common practice in the climate community (e.g. CMIP variable names). As some of these conventions also apply to folder and file names, it is important to be consistent and use the same terms in the files, names and descriptions. 

Reviewer: You could mention the CORDEX convention as an example, too. One thing I learned recently is that the CORDEX convention keeps changing (aka updating), and if one is not aware of the changing convention happening every couple of weeks, one might miss updating the data file and not be CORDEX aligned anymore. Currently, there are data description and meta-data differences between ACS-CCAM and QLD-CCAM published CMIP6 CORDEX data because of that.

Author: I was trying to give some generic advice, hence I mentioned only CF, we should have a publishing with ESGF where all these quirks can be added. CMOR, CORDEX etc. I will copy this comment to the relevant issue. And also could be added to other-conventions file? We should be covering cortex there

Author: see issue #28
